So in this jazz full editor here I want to create a basic to do app.
So let's add input and the nice thing on Chia's footless we can just type input and then hit enter to
create the input element type text as OK.
We also need a button so that we are able to submit this to add to to do so maybe let's give it a caption
I'll at to do.
And then we need someplace where we can render all these to do's in an ordered list probably.
So that is all the HDL code I need for now.
Now in javascript we need to get access to all these elements create new list items and add them to
the list.
So let's do so now.
I'll trade a variable here which will name input al the name is up to you.
Wearable use document queries selector Bouldon Methot javascript offers which allows me to select the
element by its CSSA selector and I can just use input to select input element.
Side note if this is brand new to you.
Definitely make sure to dive into some cores dedicated to teaching you javascript.
This is not the goal of this course.
You won't learn Javascript in this course.
I do expect you to ever know it already.
Or as I just mentioned to have some courseware you follow along.
Discourse is about helping you make the next step.
Choosing the right framework for the job for Fronto development.
So this selects the input element.
Let's now add button Al-Q with document queries selector button to also get access to that Butland are
done now.
Finally I'll add u l l to also get X's cutis on or at least to quilt creese selector.
You l will give us access to it.
We got access to all these elements.
Now we need to add an event listener to the button so that whenever we click it we do add a new to do
so let's wrap this button element this variable here and use an event listener like this listener to
add a new listener a click event.
And here I want to execute a function which will create your own name this function.
Add to do like this in normal javascript function your.
And now we can pass a reference to the function to the event listener as a second argument ad to do
and make sure to not add parentheses thereafter.
I only want to store the link to this function so to say I don't want to execute it here.
So in add to do we now want to create a new list item.
So I will simply named as to do I.
The name is up to you and hearable you stuck humand create element to create such a new element.
And here we simply pass the tag DHC email tag off the element you want to create else.
In this case list item.
Now of course we all should add whatever the user entered.
So we need to fetch dead and that will actually fetch that before we create this list item because maybe
the user didn't enter anything.
And in this case I don't want to create a new list item so I will check we're able retrieved to user
input user input from our input element and then we can access the value property wups property not
method which is a default property provided by chala script on input h t m l elements.
Now this gives us the well value the user entered.
Now I want to check whether this is empty so I can check user input and then maybe trim a built in javascript
function to remove all leading or trailing whitespace so that we rule out the case that the user entered
just a couple of whitespace as blanks so I will then compare to trim the value to an empty string.
And if the string is empty so if the user didn't enter anything I just want to return.
I don't want to continue execution.
If we do have a valid input I want to create a list item though and then I can say to do list item text
content to now set the text content of this newly created list item equal to the user input.
Now finally with the list item created we just have to add it to the dorm to our unordered list.
So I can use my u l l variable which holds a reference to this unordered list in the dawn.
And there I can call append child to add this to do list item.
Now that is our basic app beheading control enter in Chase fuddle.
We do render it so we see that input element here.
If I click add to do like this nothing happens.
If we open up the console log we see no error.
Besides this one which we may ignore but if I now say buy milk so if I enter something velvet it is
at it.
If I enter a couple of white spaces nothing happens.
But if I enter.
Answer questions here.
We got this too.
So that is our basic very basic to do application working.
However I want to add more functionally to it before we dive into libraries to see why vanilla javascript
might not be everything we need here.